
You said I will pull you out of my body in 237

ways. What you wanted was beautifully to

sever things. Here love: the same things. changed.
 

Finally: a taxonomy of afterthoughts. As though

you were the one who was

sleeping. Breathing in the marrow of would.

 

You, who are a valley of no, I hear the music leaking. (How she.

How she. How I.) You say low key and I do not believe you.

I forgive everything: the perseveration of skin.

 

My hands that are a chopping block and I

cannot touch him. I cannot touch him

without not touching me.

 

Because if you leave, and you are already leaving, there are three.

But you say less than three. And the couch, in your absence,

is crenellated. And who is going to watch us as we leave.

 

To add to the list of changing things: life preservers are no longer

about preservation. They have become less holy. P F D =

personal flotation device. Endlessly possible. Unlike wood.

 

Stacey May Fowles wants a lover who will hit her.

(I do not believe in submission.) I want you to erase me.

This is a kindness. A kindness you tell me. A kindness I do not deserve.

 

On the floor. By the bed. Hotel Congress. March 19, 2005.

Room #23. We are a long way from disintegrated. You said Now. Look at me. And I did. And you bloomed.

 

(When my mother died, I will say.

Many years after my mother has died.

But I will not believe her. I'll be like my grandmother who

 

despite my parade of girlfriends and her profession

that nobody should be mean to them, stilldoesn't believe in being queer.

 I don't believe in being dead,

I'll tell my dead mother. And just like you

she'll repeat herself. Happy New Year. Happy New Year. Happy New.)

 

I expect there will be a morning when you walk up to this very gate

while I am sitting here. I know this. I know you less each time I see you.

 I know this like I know you are more lonely than glass.

 

To your languishing. To your bubbly.

To your recent. To your hologram. To your desperately.

To your seeking. To your dictaphone. To your you.

 

Neuromuscular facilitation is just another way of saying

Vancouver. Always is yet a matter of roller derby. Just

in love with you. You, more than sleep.

 

In the top drawer is a photograph of them touching.

It is not so much that it is a photograph.

It is that it is a depiction of what. not could.

 

I want to tell you about my body. About testosterone

as unwitting art historian. About recovery. Me(n). What it feels like

underneath there. The part you cannot know. but should.

 

Either way. It's a house. It's a house

like everyone else has. I take things away.

I don't take them for good.

 

How delirious must we sound when we are falling.I miss you, you can't even imagine. And how bad

at math. Less than three. Less than three. Less than three.

 

And what if. I completely remember

it wrong. What if I remember there were two

of us. And then what if. there was only one death.

 

I do not believe in the existence of holes

that lead to nowhere. Muscle memory remains an enigma. Still, you can

touch her. You cannot touch her without not touching me.

 

(And still) you are not not a part of me. The world is

uncharacteristically unresponsive.

I could thank you. You stay with me. like grass.

 


Desert heat, high clouds, and sky

the color of lapis. On this journey,

anything seems possible,

so we stop by an ancient cottonwood

to kiss. The beauty trembles,

doesn't say a word, just watches

me, so open. Small birds fly by, flock

in the shady tree above us. What

settles in her heart? What congeals?

Hope? Despair? Far off, the river churns

in its sandy banks, swallows veer, turn

in fiery air. Will these kisses seal

her to me? I her lover, she my wife?

Is all of this a dream, my whole life?

 


She is just this side of wonderful,

and suddenly the glamorous world

fills itself with shining and we laugh

at highway monuments that explain

how hard the trek had been for Franciscans

in the Indian wilderness, poor fellows—

conversion is the devil's own

work! Then the stones of her dream

turn up under her feet, the back

of a huge land turtle. I know

we must be circling Paradise

because the ants enter the fleshy petals

of the roadside flowers with evident

joy and purpose (oh, my dark, pretty one).

 

Music, my adored. When is there never

music? My accordion puffs up

with drinkable melodies. I spill

her tunes into your listening ear,

one after the other: the squeeze-box

enters the dance of the plaintive gypsy

with its hard rhythms, lilts the back-

breaking labor song the worker croons

to earth, warbles romantic notes of

dissolving borders. You melt

like a woman beneath her lover's touch.

Music is happy and pitiless when

it sets fire to combustible souls. Even

the raspy bandoneon's voice is lyric.

 


Sacred. Sacred. Sacred. Sacred. (Speak

in a whisper.) We slip into this

space half cognizant. The land is very

large indeed: bones of the earth

worn down, though she is a living thing.

See how she exposes her grace? Antelopes

graze on the far plain—their high,

white tails—the red soil throbs

its slow heartbeat, and the blue sky

clears so smartly, perfectly, like

radiance. Are the ancestors near?

What can we know? We decide

to wander around this prairie, mistaken

for Utes, buy commodities in little towns.

 


Late afternoon we head west along the willow-banked

Malheur after the long curve of the Snake River plain.

(Above the falls where the Shoshone went to pray

we soaked our feet in cold water, and I observed

the arch of her brown foot.) Rabbitbrush and sage

along the highway, juniper on far hills and bluffs.

Sundown, and dusk falls over the wide basin of land.

In Burns we eat eggs in a cafe, take a room

in the Motel 6. In the dark, I can see

her black hair, black against the pillows. Its clean

scent makes me think of corn. At dawn, I hold her

and there are kisses. Then more kisses. Then more.

The day is cold; a north wind blew last night. But

the land is open. Rain falls in showers of light.

 


Her hand on my thigh, my shoulder,

in my hair. She leans over to kiss my cheek.

We look at each other, smile. For miles

we travel this way, nearly silent, point

with eyes or chins at the circling hawk, the king-

fisher on the snag above the swollen

creek. One night I weep in her arms

as she cries, ""Oh, oh, oh!"" because I have touched

her scars lightly: throat, belly, breasts.

In that communion of lovers, thick sobs

break from me as I think of my love

back home, all that I have done

and cannot say. This is the first time

I have left her so completely, so alone.

 

I can enter the morning with traces of an eternal dream: to live

on a planet of women. we sing in the fertile forest, caress on

lavender hills, bathe beneath cascades of clear waters. and just

like that, nude and wet, we mount each other’s bodies. our

desire is a whale that searches for calm in the depth of the sea.

 

I smell sex in my hair when I awaken.

 

the dream perfumes all of my days. I go to the post office and

look for stamps with etchings of flowers and fruits so that I can

send letters to the women who loved me in my sleep.

 

we are in a world that is not ours. what do we do with the

dreams that touch our consciousness in the nude each night?

 

our planet of women is nothing more than a dream. who knows

how many of us bathe in the woods or which ones of us have

wings that let us fly with our flesh? it’s not for anyone to know.

fortunately, we always dream paradise, we make it ours. there,

we find each other and live in our collective memory.

 

and so, I smell sex in my hair when I awaken.

White people leave the express

at 96th Street, collectively,

like pigeons from a live wire

or hope from the hearts of Harlem.

And I’m one of them, although

my lover sleeps two stops north between

Malcolm X and Adam Clayton Powell

Boulevards, wishing my ass

were cupped inside her knees and belly,

wishing this in a dream thick

with inequalities.

 

I live on Riverside Drive. My face

helped get me here. I was

ruddy with anticipation the day

I interviewed for the rooms

near the park with its

snow-covered maples. I was full

of undisguised hope as I

strolled along the river, believing

I belonged there, that my people

inherited this wonderland

unequivocally, as if they deserved it.

 

My lover buys twinkies from the Arabs,

bootleg tapes on ‘25th,

and carries a blade in her back

pocket although her hands

are the gentlest I’ve known.

She ignores the piss smells

on the corner, the sirens

at 4 A.M., the men whose brains

have dissolved in rum. And tries

to trust a white woman who

sleeps near the trees of Riverside.

 

When we go out together,

we avoid expensive

cafés on Columbus Avenue, jaunts

to the Upper East Side. Harlem

eyes us suspiciously or with

contempt beneath half-closed lids.

We have friends there,

hidden in the ruins like gold, who

accept us. When it snows,

we walk boldly anywhere, as if the snow

were a protection, or a death.



Who knew it’﻿﻿﻿s quite all right that I downed three

gin-and-tonics (can’﻿﻿﻿t fit male inside

female part on fanny pack) at four

o’﻿﻿﻿clock the Dyke March day of NY Pride?

Who knew Manhattan streets would liquefy

and lurch with dames sans bras, sans hair, sans shirt

in step with beer-can band led by a skirt-

ed trans in green brassiere, led by the cops

whose sentries are staid as posts with glasses on,

lined up beside the march like S/M tops?

(They seem to think Gay Pride’﻿﻿﻿s this weekend’﻿﻿﻿s yawn.)

(Pit stop at McD’﻿﻿﻿s, can’﻿﻿﻿t clip pack back on.)

Who knew she’﻿﻿﻿d march beside me hand-in-hand

and who’﻿﻿﻿d expect me to remember names

when Liz’﻿﻿﻿s girlfriend saw us and waved “Hi.

It’﻿﻿﻿s . . . Anna”? (CNN shot feed, then frames.)

Booze-stymied by the glare of girls and sky,

how could I choose? Should I grip hand, or pray

wondering: Is today today the day

she’﻿﻿﻿ll let me turn the key, lead her inside?

 


Okay, I’﻿﻿﻿m sober now. Today is just

the kind of day she talks but feels no lust.

 

Beside her isn’﻿﻿﻿t bad. Fan-stirred, the air

is humid and the theater is packed.

An ear-cuffed thespian tries to fix the cold,

our leading ladies sweat it out in back.

A prim man to my right begins to sneeze.

My nose is in agreement. The perfume

from Queen Mother there could clear the room.

This shadow play across her face is fine.

Her arm’﻿﻿﻿s near mine, which means exactly nothing.

Hope’﻿﻿﻿s hope hums on through separate listening.

That skull, opaque to me as Midland’﻿﻿﻿s vault,

her silky crop, its pepper dabbed with salt —

I chuckle at an apt sardonic line.

Her suede complexion, lifts up, checks the time.

 

Les Nouvceaux from La Nouvelle Justine

I don’﻿﻿﻿t love her. She doesn’﻿﻿﻿t love me. Neither

does this waiter who may think it strange

when young girls dine with staid dames twice their age

on salade de Bastille and pain de Sade.

I don’﻿﻿﻿t like sitting by her like wet cloth.

I don’﻿﻿﻿t like restaurants whose queers pawn sex

to the bachelor bunch who want a thrill.

I don’﻿﻿﻿t like dining with my, well, not-ex,

both measuring the humid air for signs

of sparks I see by parts will not ignite.

I’﻿﻿﻿d rather have a knock-down, drag-out fight

that cleared the joint than watch another guy

get spanked by Corset Kris, who’﻿﻿﻿d like to grab

a tit, not spend hip humping hairy thighs.

I’﻿﻿﻿d rather I were twice her age and wise.

I’﻿﻿﻿d spin cruel stories of past day of bliss

then give my own hands covert exercise

and send her home to bed without a kiss.

 

 

30 for the play and 10 for gins,

10 for two cabs and 40 for the eats,

at least the metro home was freezer-cold,

at least the Broadway Local still had seats

at 96th, the local went express.

I blistered home ten sockless humid blocks

back to my solo digs for solo sex.

I got this poem for my 90 bucks.


I want to write a love poem for the girls I kissed in seventh grade,

a song for what we did on the floor in the basement

 

of somebody’s parents’ house, a hymn for what we didn’t say but thought:That feels good or I like that, when we learned how to open each other’s mouths

 

how to move our tongues to make somebody moan. We called it practicing, and

one was the boy, and we paired off—maybe six or eight girls—and turned out

 

the lights and kissed and kissed until we were stoned on kisses, and lifted our

nightgowns or let the straps drop, and, Now you be the boy:

 

concrete floor, sleeping bag or couch, playroom, game room, train room, laundry.

Linda’s basement was like a boat with booths and portholes

 

instead of windows. Gloria’s father had a bar downstairs with stools that spun,

plush carpeting. We kissed each other’s throats.

 

We sucked each other’s breasts, and we left marks, and never spoke of it upstairs

outdoors, in daylight, not once. We did it, and it was

 

practicing, and slept, sprawled so our legs still locked or crossed, a hand still lost

in someone’s hair . . . and we grew up and hardly mentioned who

 

the first kiss really was—a girl like us, still sticky with moisturizer we’d

shared in the bathroom. I want to write a song

 

for that thick silence in the dark, and the first pure thrill of unreluctant desire,

just before we’d made ourselves stop.



(for E)









               I stop my hand midair.

 

               If I touch her there everything about me will be true.

               The New World discovered without pick or ax.

 

               I will be what Brenda Jones was stoned for in 1969.

               I saw it as a girl but didn’t know I was taking in myself.

 

               My hand remembers, treading the watery room,

               just behind the rose-veiled eyes of memory.

 

Alone in the yard tucked beneath the hood of her car,

lucky clover all about her feet, green tea-sweet necklace

for her mud-pie crusty work boots.

 

She fends off their spit & words with silent two-handed

twists & turns of her socket wrench. A hurl of sticks &

stones and only me to whisper for her, from sidewalk far,

 break my bones. A grown woman in grease-pocket overalls

inside her own sexy transmission despite the crowding of

hurled red hots. Beneath the hood of her candy-apple Camaro: 

souped, shiny, low to the ground. 

               The stars over the Atlantic are dangling

               salt crystals. The room at the Seashell Inn is

               $20 a night; special winter off-season rate.

               No one else here but us and the night clerk,

               five floors below, alone with his cherished

               stack of Spiderman. My lips are red snails

               in a primal search for every constellation

               hiding in the sky of your body. My hand

               waits for permission, for my life to agree

               to be changed, forever. Can Captain Night

               Clerk hear my fingers tambourining you

               there on the moon? Won’t he soon climb

               the stairs and bam! on the hood of this car?

               You are a woman with film reels for eyes.

               Years of long talking have brought us to the

               land of the body. Our skin is one endless

               prayer bead of brown. If my hand ever lands,

               I will fly past dreaming Australian Aborigines.

               The old claw hammer and monkey wrench

               that flew at Brenda Jones will fly across the

               yard of ocean at me. A grease rag will be

               thrust into my painter’s pants against my

               will. I will never be able to wash or peel

               any of this away. Before the night is over

               someone I do not know will want the keys

               to my ’55 silver Thunderbird. He will chase

               me down the street. A gaggle of spooked

               hens will fly up in my grandmother’s yard,

               never to lay another egg, just as I am jump-

               ed, kneed, pulled finally to the high ground

               of sweet clover.


I forgot how lush and electrified

it was with you. The shaggy

fragrant zaps continually passing

back and forth, my fingertip

to your clavicle, or your wrist

rubbing mine to share gardenia

oil. We so purred like dragonflies

we kept the mosquitoes away

and the conversation was heavy,

mother-lacerated childhoods

and the sad way we'd both

been both ignored and touched

badly. Knowing that being

fierce and proud and out and

loud was just a bright new way

to be needy. Please listen to me, oh

what a buzz! you're the only one I can tell. Even with no secret,

I could come close to your ear

with my mouth and that was

ecstasy, too. We barely touched

each other, we didn't have to

speak. The love we made leapt

to life like a cat in the space

between us (if there ever was 

space between us), and looked

back at us through fog. Sure,

this was San Francisco, it was

often hard to see. But fog always

burned off, too, so we watched

this creature to see if it knew

what it was doing. It didn't.







For T.S.







Whose hands touched, first, the headof the penis, the shaft?And was it soft                          or shale?  More rockthan clay.And who pinched firstinto their place the small cups at the base of the ass?                                         Who was itgot down there, on whose knees,and blew—                         and was that passionor panic, the machine that drovethose exhalations?                                        —and howcould we rate the power of thatbreath—breeze or gale or a whisperlike the song the little boy singsto the beetle,                          whose small legs moved in tune like his legs, the legs on that first body, must havemoved, if they did move, when                                                        the dust settled.In my mind everything’s become enormous.But was it ever small like that, the first body?Did it ever sit close to the ants and their pilesof dirt from which that body had come?You were a small boy once, I suppose.You were dirty from the start.  You showed me how to use a cock ring,and why.                          How, without ever paying for a room, to spend two weeks in any city.How two men could fuck and continue to face each otherdirectly             —took my body and showed me,my back on a table, my knees by my head.  Stretched me                          into seeing you were more than a dog.You must be dead by now, though I don’t knowwhose hands prepared you.                                                       Whose fingersfingered, for the final time,all that dark and kinky hair?If the first body was made of dirt,in order to plumb the hollow of that first throat, whose thumb first lodged inside the hingeof that first mouth to force it open?To make the tongue, so it could work,who shoved inside that mouththe shit of a hundred thousand worms?

Dear Writers, I’m compiling the first in what I hope is a series of publications I’m calling artists among artists. The theme for issue 1 is “Faggot Dinosaur.” I hope to hear from you! Thank you and best wishes.  

 Larry Levan (snake), 2006, by Elia Alba 

Hip hip hip hip hip makes the man

as the conga, serpentine, slides across the frame 

and the disco dub — tilt and sway — 

sewing pelves in the room, as if  Larry, still, 

were levitating streetwise

Blacks, Drags, Latinos, Punks: Saturday Mass, 1985, 

in the Paradise Garage — Evelyn

“Champagne” King, Kraftwerk, Ashra. 

No. He’s black-and-white, a head shot,

one two three four five, 

on this S curve of 21st-century revelers,

mask on the one body down, 

shimmer slant of a hoop earring

under the ten-leg- hop-and-pulsate —  

glide on through. And Larry, Dour Father,

bubble pop-popped, afloat, 

asking repeatedly: Who, My Friends, is fronting? Who is not?  You, Velvet Valance, over the sequined  drag of curtain. Black is Black,  Brown is Brown, Gay is Gay disco  pulsing up and through seventeen years of not-forbidding bodies. Introibo



ad altare Dei. Ad Deum qui lætificat 

juventutem meam. Gather you  to me and to one another. Grind.


I show her how to put her arms around me,   

but she’s much too small.

What’s worse, she doesn’t understand.   

And

although she lies beside me, sticking   

out her tongue, it’s herself she licks.

She likes my stroking hand.   

And

even lets me kiss.

But at my demand:

“Now, do it to me, like this,”   

she backs off with a hiss.

What’s in her little mind?

Jumping off the bed,

she shows me her behind,

but curls up on the rug instead.

I beg her to return. At first, she did,   

then went and hid

under the covers. She’s playing with my feet!   

“Oh, Boa, come back. Be sweet,

Lie against me here where I’m nice and warm.   

Settle down. Don’t claw, don’t bite.

Stay with me tonight.”

Seeming to consent, she gives a little whine.

Her deep, deep pupils meet mine   

with a look that holds a flood ...   

But not my brand.

Not at all.

And,

what‘s worse, she’s much too small.


am I not    olden olden olden

it is unwanted.

wanting, wanting

am I not    broken

stolen    common

am I not crinkled cranky poison

am I not glinty-eyed and frozen

am I not    aged

shaky    glazing

am I not    hazy

guarded    craven

am I not    only

stingy    little

am I not    simple

brittle    spitting

was I not    over

over    ridden?

it is a long story

will you be proud to be my version?

it is unwritten.

writing, writing

am I not    ancient

raging    patient

am I not    able

charming    stable

was I not    building

forming    braving

was I not    ruling

guiding    naming

was I not    brazen

crazy    chosen

even the stones would do my bidding?

it is a long story

am I not proud to be your version?

it is unspoken.

speaking, speaking

am I not    elder

berry

brandy

are you not wine before you find me

in your own beaker?


This is how it is with me:

so strong, I want to draw the egg

from your womb and nourish it in my own.

I want to mother your child made only

of us, of me, you: no borrowed seed

from any man. I want to re-fashion

the matrix of creation, make a human being

from the human love that passes between

our bodies. Sweetheart, this is how it is:

when you emerge from the bedroom

in a clean cotton shirt, sleeves pushed back

over forearms, scented with cologne

from an amber bottle—I want to open

my heart, the brightest aching slit

of my soul, receive your pearl.

I watch your hands, wait for the sign

that means you’ll touch me,

open me, fill me; wait for that moment

when your desire leaps inside me.



I was born in Boston in

1949. I never wanted

this fact to be known, in

fact I’ve spent the better

half of my adult life

trying to sweep my early

years under the carpet

and have a life that

was clearly just mine

and independent of

the historic fate of

my family. Can you

imagine what it was

like to be one of them,

to be built like them,

to talk like them

to have the benefits

of being born into such

a wealthy and powerful

American family. I went

to the best schools,

had all kinds of tutors

and trainers, traveled

widely, met the famous,

the controversial, and

the not-so-admirable

and I knew from

a very early age that

if there were ever any

possibility of escaping

the collective fate of this famous

Boston family I would

take that route and

I have. I hopped

on an Amtrak to New

York in the early

‘70s and I guess

you could say

my hidden years

began. I thought

Well I’ll be a poet.

What could be more

foolish and obscure.

I became a lesbian.

Every woman in my

family looks like

a dyke but it’s really

stepping off the flag

when you become one.

While holding this ignominious

pose I have seen and

I have learned and

I am beginning to think

there is no escaping

history. A woman I

am currently having

an affair with said

you know  you look

like a Kennedy. I felt

the blood rising in my

cheeks. People have

always laughed at

my Boston accent

confusing “large” for

“lodge,” “party”

for “potty.” But

when this unsuspecting

woman invoked for

the first time my

family name

I knew the jig

was up. Yes, I am,

I am a Kennedy.

My attempts to remain

obscure have not served

me well. Starting as

a humble poet I

quickly climbed to the

top of my profession

assuming a position of

leadership and honor.

It is right that a

woman should call

me out now. Yes,

I am a Kennedy.

And I await

your orders.

You are the New Americans.

The homeless are wandering

the streets of our nation’s

greatest city. Homeless

men with AIDS are among

them. Is that right?

That there are no homes

for the homeless, that

there is no free medical

help for these men. And women.

That they get the message

—as they are dying—

that this is not their home?

And how are your

teeth today? Can

you afford to fix them?

How high is your rent?

If art is the highest

and most honest form

of communication of

our times and the young

artist is no longer able

to move here to speak

to her time…Yes, I could,

but that was 15 years ago

and remember—as I must

I am a Kennedy.

Shouldn’t we all be Kennedys?

This nation’s greatest city

is home of the business-

man and home of the

rich artist. People with

beautiful teeth who are not

on the streets. What shall

we do about this dilemma?

Listen, I have been educated.

I have learned about Western

Civilization. Do you know

what the message of Western

Civilization is? I am alone.

Am I alone tonight?

I don’t think so. Am I

the only one with bleeding gums

tonight. Am I the only

homosexual in this room

tonight. Am I the only

one whose friends have

died, are dying now.

And my art can’t

be supported until it is

gigantic, bigger than

everyone else’s, confirming

the audience’s feeling that they are

alone. That they alone

are good, deserved

to buy the tickets

to see this Art.

Are working,

are healthy, should

survive, and are

normal. Are you

normal tonight? Everyone

here, are we all normal.

It is not normal for

me to be a Kennedy.

But I am no longer

ashamed, no longer

alone. I am not

alone tonight because

we are all Kennedys.

And I am your President.

 



Coming together   

it is easier to work   

after our bodies   

meet

paper and pen

neither care nor profit

whether we write or not

but as your body moves

under my hands   

charged and waiting   

we cut the leash

you create me against your thighs   

hilly with images

moving through our word countries   

my body

writes into your flesh

the poem

you make of me.

Touching you I catch midnight   

as moon fires set in my throat   

I love you flesh into blossom   

I made you

and take you made

into me.



The bleached wood massed in bone piles,   

we pulled it from dark beach and built   

fire in a fenced clearing.

The posts’ blunt stubs sank down,

they circled and were roofed by milled   

lumber dragged at one time to the coast.   

We slept there.

Each morning the minus tide—

weeds flowed it like hair swimming.   

The starfish gripped rock, pastel,   

rough. Fish bones lay in sun.

Each noon the milk fog sank

from cloud cover, came in   

our clothes and held them   

tighter on us. Sea stacks   

stood and disappeared.

They came back when the sun

scrubbed out the inlet.

We went down to piles to get

mussels, I made my shirt

a bowl of mussel stones, carted

them to our grate where they smoked apart.   

I pulled the mussel lip bodies out,

chewed their squeak.

We went up the path for fresh water, berries.   

Hardly speaking, thinking.

During low tide we crossed   

to the island, climbed

its wet summit. The redfoots   

and pelicans dropped for fish.   

Oclets so silent fell

toward water with linked feet.

Jacynthe said little.

Long since we had spoken Nova Scotia,Michigan, and knew beauty in saying nothing.   

She told me about her mother

who would come at them with bread knives then   

stop herself, her face emptied.

I told her about me,

never lied. At night

at times the moon floated.   

We sat with arms tight   

watching flames spit, snap.   

On stone and sand picking up

wood shaped like a body, like a gull.

I ran barefoot not only

on beach but harsh gravels   

up through the woods.

I shit easy, covered my dropping.   

Some nights, no fires, we watched

sea pucker and get stabbed   

by the beacon

circling on Tatoosh.



I stripped and spread

on the sea lip, stretched   

to the slap of the foam   

and the vast red dulce.   

Jacynthe gripped the earth   

in her fists, opened—

the boil of the tide   

shuffled into her.

The beach revolved,

headlands behind us

put their pines in the sun.

Gulls turned a strong sky.

Their pained wings held,

they bit water quick, lifted.   

Their looping eyes continually   

measure the distance from us,   

bare women who do not touch.

Rocks drowsed, holes

filled with suds from a distance.

A deep laugh bounced in my flesh   

and sprayed her.



Flies crawled us,

Jacynthe crawled.

With her palms she

spread my calves, she

moved my heels from each other.   

A woman’s mouth is

not different, sand moved

wild beneath me, her long

hair wiped my legs, with women   

there is sucking, the water

slops our bodies. We come

clean, our clits beat like

twins to the loons rising up.

We are awake.

Snails sprinkle our gulps.   

Fish die in our grips, there is   

sand in the anus of dancing.   

Tatoosh Island

hardens in the distance.

We see its empty stones   

sticking out of the sea again.   

Jacynthe holds tinder

under fire to cook the night’s wood.If we had men I would make   

milk in me simply.


Tell me,

Was Venus more beautiful

Than you are,

When she topped

The crinkled waves,

Drifting shoreward

On her plaited shell?

Was Botticelli’s vision

Fairer than mine;

And were the painted rosebuds   

He tossed his lady

Of better worth

Than the words I blow about you

To cover your too great loveliness   

As with a gauze

Of misted silver?

For me,

You stand poised

In the blue and buoyant air,

Cinctured by bright winds,

Treading the sunlight.

And the waves which precede you   

Ripple and stir

The sands at my feet.



when i was 7, i hoped rocks would whisper

the secret to being hard. fascinated by Keisha’s skin

so soft, i seduced her into humping even though she

was five years my senior and my babysitter—click of the light

covers snatched away like a magic trick reveal

i could hear Keisha wail one floor up

through the radiator pipes—i was the victim.

 

at 7, i decided i should’ve been born

a boy, a he, a him. blamed my mama for her mistake.

prayed for a penis and practiced peeing standing up

until it came: aim, angle of lean, and straddle were crucial.

toilet seat up, knees clamping the cool rim i let go

of the golden flow feeling the warm wet trickle down my legs

darkening my dungarees a new shade of blue.

 

at 7, i was never afraid of putting things in my mouth:

i chewed my fingernails till they bled, chewed pencils

till the yellow paint flaked me a crusty mustache,

chewed pen caps into odd sculptures, chewed pens until

the inky cylinders leaked a Rorschach on my face

kids pointing as i ran to the bathroomoooh a butterfly! no, a thundercloud …

 

i wore my iron-on Bruce Lee sweatshirt till his face cracked

and faded invisible. still, i felt invincible when i wore it

kicking lunch tables with my shins. karate-chopping pencils

in two. forever trying to impress the skirts with my awkward

brand of goof. punching my arm to make lumps

rise out of the bony sinew. at 7, i knew

how to make a girl cry.

 








                                             the Platonic idea


      is “not only beauty, truth, and goodness,” but “the heavenly


             bed, created by God … a heavenly man, a heavenly


                             dog, a heavenly cat, and so on …”


                                             Bertrand Russell







               We’re not all lesbians at this bar and grill (not yet?        not practicing? only in heart?), chiaroscuro as the room is                 with expensive ambiance and dear cuts of meat

             and fish overlaid with nouveau fruit sauce, it’s clear                   that the most manly woman among us, older,                    wearing cowboy boots and a turquoise bolo,                  is probably neither entirely straight nor wholly                 queer. When she begins to confess her ‘secret’—                        it’s her holding of a piece of land, acres                    of sweet desert; its muddy roads, its remote                 sublime have four-wheeled deep into her being.                She’s probably someone’s heavenly grandmother,                     as I’m still someone’s heavenly wife, despite                 the separation. Appearance does not really appear,               but it appears to appear, yet, for a moment, it seems                    our conversation may open up unexpectedly                      or shatter into awkwardness over the word                         girlfriends: who in the rainy summers                of our youths, we all played with our girlfriends,

                    (what do I mean by ‘girlfriend?’ what do you             mean by yours?) It’s only then, as one of the younger                 women (the most lovely, so silver with bracelets                       and earrings and a noticeable ring) laughs                that I begin to guess her inclination, Does it really                    appear to appear, or only apparently appear               to appear? It’s a long way from Plato’s symposium            to this bar and grill in Arizona. At that ancient feast—        whenever a number of individuals have a common name,                  they have also a common ‘idea’ or ‘form’—only           men reclined upon the couches, and the only the love                    of man for man was love’s ideal, the impulse               toward some boyish form becoming the ascension                  of being to some ever truer realm, as the souls                      of men became pregnant and gave birth to

                     “not only beauty, truth, and goodness,” but

           “the heavenly bed, created by God… a heavenly man,               a heavenly dog, a heavenly cat, and so on through         a whole Noah’s ark,” but no heavenly woman, much less             a heavenly lesbian, for since Aristotle, “Lesbian rule”         has meant that measure made of lead so it could be bent          to a curved or crooked wall. Because we are all women,            how can we speak of love? In the beginning, banished         from the realm of discourse, assigned to love’s servitude                  not its speech, to be love’s body not its tongue,            so no one here speaks of her feeling, much less thinks        to make it another’s measure. In our mouths, the tongue’s               a knife, each word a wild edge, where we stammer                   only our own wound, a drop of blood sensual                   on the tongue, a distinctive taste of salt, more

               mollusk perhaps—wrapped around an I of sand—                    than pearl, a syllable of milk or nipple, some

                    private body within the body, the you behind

              your eyes, as if being itself were poetry—passionate

            with nascent and protean neologism, full of the gaps

             of being, the oblique richness of a depth in which we

                begin to glimpse each other, mysterious and solo

                       as we are, black stubborn pearls of being.

                    If we spoke of Plato, and we don’t; each of us

                         was banished from the womb by virtue

                   of having a womb, to this unpredictable realm

                        where each of us would have to discover

                    her self, that wild tongue—never delineated,

               even in shadow, upon the philosopher’s cave wall.

 



No woman wants to be low-hanging fruit,

my glamorous girlfriend says, but I’m indiscriminate

and love all fruit, I’m tempted to list each kind

right here, in and out of season,

because even just saying the names gives me pleasure,

as does saying your name.

I’m not alone with my passion — my whole family,

we’re a little off in this regard,

we can spend hours talking about cantaloupe

or arguing over how many flats to buy

when it’s Peach-O-Rama at the Metropolitan.

Once I even drove half a day to get to Pence Orchards

where I met and took photos of Bert Pence,

who sold me three boxes of peaches at wholesale prices.

He was so good to me, as was the late-summer freestone

I picked as I walked back through the orchard

in the August heat to the entrance gates,

which were nothing like the Gates of Hell.

On the contrary, I was in heaven there in Yakima.

I can still smell that single peach, which was profusely

low-hanging, it was the definition of low-hanging,

it fell into my hands, as you did — 

or perhaps as I did into yours — 

but that was months ago.

When I walked past the stands yesterday,

on what should have been the first day of spring,

all produce had been covered with heavy blankets

to keep it warm, to mitigate harm.

Today the temperature dropped so low

someone thought to remove the fruit entirely and stash it away.

With this strange weather we’re having, will I see you again?

I can’t help myself.


